Update Pipelines guide for existing repos (#2192)
gruntwork-io/docs: docs/2.0/docs/pipelines/installation/addingexistingrepo.md

:::

## Prerequisites

- An active Gruntwork Subscription with access to Pipelines. You can verify you have access by choosing the "View team in GitHub" button in your [Gruntwork Developer Portal's account page](https://app.gruntwork.io/account) if you are an admin of the organization. The link will take you to the GitHub team UI and then you can search for "pipelines" in the repositories tab to verify you have access.

> - AWS credentials with permissions to create resources in the AWS account where you would like to deploy Pipelines. This is necessary to create OpenID Connect(OIDC) Provider and AWS Identity and Access Management(IAM) roles for Pipelines to use to auto deploy infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- AWS credentials with permissions to create resources in the AWS account where you would like to deploy Pipelines. This is necessary to create an OpenID Connect(OIDC) Provider and AWS Identity and Access Management(IAM) roles for Pipelines to use when deploying infrastructure.
```

Create a file called `.gruntwork/gruntwork.hcl` in the root of your repository with the contents below. This file will be used to configure Pipelines for your repository. Update the following values:

- <CustomizableValue id="ENVIRONMENT_NAME" /> to a name that represents the environment you are deploying to. e.g. `production`, `staging`, `development`, etc.
- <CustomizableValue id="PATH_TO_ENVIRONMENT" /> to the root-relative path of the folder in your repository that contains the terragrunt units for the environment you are deploying to. This may be the same as the environment name if there is a directory in the root of the repository that contains all the terragrunt units for the environment.
- <CustomizableValue id="AWS_ACCOUNT_ID" /> to the AWS Account ID where terragrunt units matching the environment will be deployed to.
- <CustomizableValue id="DEPLOY_BRANCH_NAME" /> to the branch name that you would like to deploy from. This is the branch that will trigger the Pipelines apply workflow when changes are merged to it. e.g `main`, `master`, etc. All other pull requests against this branch will trigger the Pipelines plan workflow.

```hcl title=".gruntwork/gruntwork.hcl"

> # Configurations applicable to the entire repository https://docs.gruntwork.io/2.0/docs/pipelines/installation/addingexistingrepo#repository-blocks

Reviewer: Why are we documenting things as code comments here? Can't we just explain this in markdown above the code fence?

Reviewer 2: +1

Reviewer: I think that's useful when templating, but links are nicer to read in markdown.

repository {
  deploy_branch_name = "$$DEPLOY_BRANCH_NAME$$"
}

> # Configurations used authentication blocks https://docs.gruntwork.io/2.0/docs/pipelines/installation/addingexistingrepo#aws-blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

aws {
  accounts "all" {
    // Reading the accounts.yml file from the root of the repository
    path = "../accounts.yml"
  }
}

# Configurations that are applicable to a specific environment within a repository # https://docs.gruntwork.io/2.0/docs/pipelines/installation/addingexistingrepo#environment-blocks
environment "$$ENVIRONMENT_NAME$$" {
  filter {
    paths = ["$$PATH_TO_ENVIRONMENT$$/*"]
  }

  authentication {
    aws_oidc {
      account_id         = aws.accounts.all.$$AWS_ACCOUNT_NAME$$.id
      plan_iam_role_arn  = "arn:aws:iam::${aws.accounts.all.$$AWS_ACCOUNT_NAME$$.id}:role/pipelines-plan"
      apply_iam_role_arn = "arn:aws:iam::${aws.accounts.all.$$AWS_ACCOUNT_NAME$$.id}:role/pipelines-apply"
    }
  }
}
```

> The IAM roles referenced in the unit configuration above will be created later in [Pipeline OpenID Connect(OIDC) Provider and Roles](#pipelines-openid-connectoidc-provider-and-roles) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IAM roles referenced in the unit configuration above will be created later in [Pipelines OpenID Connect (OIDC) Provider and Roles](#pipelines-openid-connectoidc-provider-and-roles) section.
```

You may add new [environment configurations](/2.0/reference/pipelines/configurations-as-code#environment-configurations) for each additional environment or consider using [unit configuration](/2.0/reference/pipelines/configurations-as-code#unit-configurations) for specific terragrunt units in your repository that do not fit into an environment configuration.

### Pipelines GitHub Actions(GHA) workflow

> Pipelines is implemented as a GitHub [reusable workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/sharing-automations/reusing-workflows#creating-a-reusable-workflow). This means that the code to implement Pipelines and all of its features lives in an external repository (generally you'll point to [ours](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/pipelines-workflows/)) and the code in your repository simply makes a reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipelines is implemented as a GitHub [reusable workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/sharing-automations/reusing-workflows#creating-a-reusable-workflow). This means that the code to implement Pipelines and all of its features lives in an external repository (generally you'll point to [ours](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/pipelines-workflows/)) and the code in your repository simply references it.
```

    paths-ignore:
      # Workflow does not run only if ALL filepaths match the pattern. See https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#example-excluding-paths
      - ".github/**"
  pull_request:
    types:
      - opened
      - synchronize
      - reopened

# Permissions to assume roles and create pull requests
permissions:
  id-token: write

jobs:
  GruntworkPipelines:
    # https://github.com/gruntwork-io/pipelines-workflows/blob/v3/.github/workflows/pipelines.yml
    uses: gruntwork-io/pipelines-workflows/.github/workflows/pipelines.yml@v3
    secrets:
      PIPELINES_READ_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.PIPELINES_READ_TOKEN }}

  PipelinesPassed:
    needs: GruntworkPipelines
    if: always()
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - run: |
          echo "::debug::RESULT: $RESULT"
          if [[ $RESULT = "success" ]]; then
            echo "GruntworkPipelines completed successfully!"
          else
            echo "GruntworkPipelines failed!"
            exit 1
          fi
        env:
          RESULT: ${{ needs.GruntworkPipelines.result }}
```

</details>

### Pipelines OpenID Connect(OIDC) Provider and Roles

> We will create the infrastructure as code for the [OIDC](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-for-github-actions/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-amazon-web-services) roles that Pipelines will use to deploy infrastructure. Two roles are required; one to perform a plan and another to perform an apply to maintain the principle of least privilege. This step in the process will require the AWS credentials with the necessary permissions to create the OIDC resources that Pipelines will be able to automatically assume to deploy infrastructure after we have completed the setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create the Infrastructure as Code (IaC) for the [OIDC](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-for-github-actions/security-hardening-your-deployments/configuring-openid-connect-in-amazon-web-services) roles that Pipelines will use to deploy infrastructure.

Two roles are required:
- One for plans (`pipelines-plan`)
- Another for applies (`pipelines-apply`)

Using two roles like this helps to maintain the principle of least privilege, as the `pipelines-plan` role will be used during pull request open/update and needs largely read-only permissions, and the `pipelines-apply` role will be used during pull request merge, and needs read/write permissions. Note that the two will also have different IAM trust policies. The `apply` role will only trust the deploy branch, while the `plan` role will trust all branches.

This step in the process will require that you have the AWS access with necessary permissions to create the necessary AWS IAM resources for Pipelines to assume when deploying infrastructure.
```

      effect = "Allow"
      actions = [
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:GetBucketVersioning",
        "s3:GetBucketAcl",
        "s3:GetBucketLogging",
        "s3:CreateBucket",
        "s3:PutBucketPublicAccessBlock",
        "s3:PutBucketTagging",
        "s3:PutBucketPolicy",
        "s3:PutBucketVersioning",
        "s3:PutEncryptionConfiguration",
        "s3:PutBucketAcl",
        "s3:PutBucketLogging",
        "s3:GetEncryptionConfiguration",
        "s3:GetBucketPolicy",
        "s3:GetBucketPublicAccessBlock",
        "s3:PutLifecycleConfiguration",
        "s3:PutBucketOwnershipControls",
      ]
      resources = [
        "arn:aws:s3:::${local.state_bucket_pattern}",
      ]
    }
    "S3StateBucketObjectAccess" = {
      effect = "Allow"
      actions = [
        "s3:PutObject",
        "s3:GetObject"
      ]
      resources = [
        "arn:aws:s3:::${local.state_bucket_pattern}/*",
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

</details>

:::tip

The permissions in the above files are examples and should be updated based on the type of infrastructure contained in the repository so that Pipelines can perform the necessary actions to deploy your infrastructure.

> Also note that the IAM permissions above do not include permissions to update itself for security reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also note that the IAM permissions above do not include permissions to update the role itself for security reasons.
```

:::

Repeat this step for each environment you would like to manage with Pipelines.

#### Create the OIDC resources

> Using the necessary AWS credentials, run the following commands to deploy the infrastructure for the terragrunt units we created in the previous step. Repeat this step for each account you would like to manage with Pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using your personal AWS access, run the following commands to deploy the infrastructure for the Terragrunt units we created in the previous step. Repeat this step for each account you would like to manage with Pipelines.
```

  ```bash
  terragrunt run-all apply
  ```

:::tip

If you encounter issues with the plan or apply steps due to existence of other resources already in the *_global* folder, you can run plan/apply for the terragrunt units individually starting with the `github-actions-openid-connect-provider` unit because the other units depend on it.

:::

#### Commit and push the changes

Create a branch, and commit all your changes with a **`[skip ci]`** text included in the commit message to avoid triggering the Pipelines workflow. Push the changes to the repository, create a Pull Request, and merge the changes to the <CustomizableValue id="DEPLOY_BRANCH_NAME" /> branch you specified in the `.github/workflows/pipelines.yml` file.

## Enable GitHub Authentication for Pipelines

Follow the instructions in [Authenticating via GitHub App](/2.0/docs/pipelines/installation/viagithubapp) to enable GitHub authentication for Pipelines in your repository using the Gruntwork.io GitHub App. This is the recommended way to authenticate Pipelines with GitHub in your repository but you may also [Authenticate via Machine Users](/2.0/docs/pipelines/installation/viamachineusers) if you prefer.

## Next Steps

> You have successfully completed the installation for Gruntwork Pipelines in your existing repository. Follow [Deploying your first infrastructure change](/2.0/docs/pipelines/tutorials/deploying-your-first-infrastructure-change) tutorial to test the installation and deploy your first infrastructure using Gruntwork Pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have successfully completed the installation for Gruntwork Pipelines in an existing repository. Follow [Deploying your first infrastructure change](/2.0/docs/pipelines/tutorials/deploying-your-first-infrastructure-change) tutorial to test the installation and deploy infrastructure using Gruntwork Pipelines.
```
